in this video let us discuss about linked list
So basically linked list are linear data structures and
each node in a linked list will have two parts
The data part and the reference to the next node
In the data part we can store the required information
It can be of any data type like it can
be int for char or float or double etc
and the reference part will hold the next nodes
address
So to hold the data and reference to the next
node we can create a Java class so write class
node
And first we need the data which can be of
any type
But let us assume it's integer here so write int
data and we need next which will be of type
node itself because it is a reference to the next
node
so write
Next now let us create an allocate memory for three
nodes
So first create the class node and we need
integer type data to store information and node type
Next to refer
The next node now create nodes
head middle and last so memory is allocated in
the stack
So now we can use the keyword new to
create object and allocate memory to it
So write head equal to new node so object node
will be created and memory will be allocated from the
heap section
Similarly objects are created for middle node and last node
and memories allocated in the heap section So now we
have three nodes
Next we need values in the nodes
So let us assigned the values 10 20 and 30 to The
nodes head middle and last So we know the values
will be stored in the data part So write head
dot data equal to 10 middle dot data equal to
20 and last dot data equal to 30
So now we have the nodes with values
The next step is these nodes should be linked That
is the linked listt should be like head node middle
node and last node So let us link them
using the reference part So write head dot next equal
to Middle So head refers the middle node then
write middle dot next equal to last so middle node
will refer The last node and last node should have
null in its reference part so write last dot Next
equal to null
So now we have a perfect linked listt with three
nodes with values 10 20 and 30
Now let us print each nodes data in the linked
list
So to print each nodes data we have to traverse
the linked list till the end and we can identify
the end easily since the last nodes next will be
null
So start from the head print the data and repeat
til we have nodes next equal
to null so first create temporary node temp and initialised
to the head
So write node temp equal to head
Now we need a while loop so write while temp
not equal to null So this loop will continue till
the end of the linked list or till TEMP becomes
null So print the data which is present in temp
node which is head now So write system dot out
println of temp dot data
So it will print 10 and then we need to
move to the next node
So write temp equal to temp dot Next
So now temp points to the address 2024 Now it
again check The while condition and it holds
So it prints the data at address 2024 which
is 20 now temp is moved to the next node
again check the condition and it holds so print the data
at address 3024 which is 30
So now move temp to the next node
So now temp becomes null since temp next equal to
null
Now when checking the while condition again it fails
So the control comes out of the loop and we
got each nodes data printed on the screen